In this concept, we will talk and learn about another complex type called mapping.
The simplest way to describe mapping in solidity would be to say that it
is similar to a Java hash table or a JavaScript associative array.
Now, mappings are stored on the EVM as part of the contract.
Mappings can only be created as a storage variable.
Mappings can not be created as a local variable inside a function.
In this example, a mapping named balances,
like you see on the screen,
will be created in storage,
where key is of type address and value is of type unit.
Now, keys can be of any type except mapping type,
but values can be of any type including mapping types.
So again, remember, your keys in a mapping can be of any type except the mapping type,
but the values can be of any type including mapping types.
Now, let's compare mapping with hash tables.
In mapping, values exist for all possible keys initialized to zero or empty strings.
In other words, if you try to get a value for the key that was not set,
then you will receive all zeros or empty string depending on the type of the value.
When you add a new key value pair in mapping,
the key is not stored as is.
Instead, a keccak256-bit hash is created and stored as a key.
In other words, the actual key data is not stored in the mapping.
Now, mappings are not iterable,
that means you cannot loop through mapping.
There is absolutely no out-of-the-box way for looping through all the keys in a mapping.
You cannot find the length of mapping.
So, there is absolutely no way,
no attribute or member function to find the number of key value pairs in a mapping.
You can do this by maybe maintaining a separate counter for a mapping,
but you just cannot look through the mapping,
you cannot find the length of mapping.
Now, let us look at an example code on your screen here.
In this example, we're creating a mapping called capitals.
The syntax is to write a mapping is with the keyword mapping,
then brackets, and
then the key and the value types separated
by a fat arrow and then the name of the mapping.
Then, we have a function called addCapital,
that is taking in two inputs: country and capital names.
Then, we store this in the mapping.
The various store keys is again using the square bracket notation.
So, you give the name of the mapping,
then a square bracket,
and the key inside it.
Then, 'equal to' sign and then you give the value you want to store along that key.
The next function, getCapital.
We are accessing the mapping using again the square bracket notation.
To remove a key value pair or to initialize the value to an empty string,
you can use the delete operator.
This is what we're doing in the function removeCapital.
Let's look at some more mapping examples
and sample contract to understand mappings better.
So, on our screen here,
we are having a sample contract,
and the name of the contract is mapping contract.
It's creating a mapping in storage, like I mentioned,
mapping can only be created outside functions in storage.
So we're creating a mapping.
The key is a string type,
the values also string type,
and the name of the mapping is relations.
Now, what we're doing is we're having a function to add relation.
So again, this is a mapping that just stores the relations
between people and the relation to them.
So, we're having a function.
Into this function, you can pass the name of a person and the relation to that person,
and it's going to access the mapping, store it.
Again, name of the mapping,
square bracket, key, value, okay?
So again, name of the mapping, square bracket,
you put the key, whatever your key gotten in the function followed by the value.
This is same thing,
is actually, accessing the mapping and returning.
So, it's giving you,
the function is getting a name of the person,
and you want to see what the relation is,
so it's returning a string.
So, you again accessing it with the relations name and
this whatever the value is going to be sent back.
The way you delete it, if you've seen the next function,
we have a removeRelation function.
You have a string name,
so it's going to tell you the function is actually asking for an argument,
who do you want to delete from my relations,
and do you have the delete?
Then, within delete, of course,
you're going to have brackets, and within delete,
you have relations, you're accessing the key value.
This is a value that you're getting and then you delete it.
So, this is a sample contract that kind of explains to you mapping.
A very simple contract,
but mappings are definitely very important,
that we'll definitely be dealing with mappings quite a bit more.